# Collaborative editor and Real-time video call platform (C.E.R.V.C.)

## Table of Contents

- [Setup](#setup)
- [Project structure](#project-structure)
- [Front-end framework for UI](#front-edn-framework-for-ui)


# Setup

1. Install a Node Version Manager (`nvm`) based on your OS:
- Windows: `nvm-windows` from https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows
- Linux/MacOS: `nvm` from https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm
2. Using `nvm`, install the latest stable version of Node - run `nvm install latest`. Type `nvm list` to see all installed versions of Node. Pick the latest version and run `nvm use <selected_node_version>` i.e. `nvm use 14.15.0`. Now you are using that selected version of Node.
3. Install a Node Package Manager (`npm`) if it isn't installed yet. Type `npm --version` to see what version of `npm` you are currently using. Npm is usually installed automatically with the instalation of Node, if that is the case, update your npm by running `npm install npm@latest -g`
4. Instal the `MongoDB` GUI called Robo 3T from https://robomongo.org/
5. Install an npm library called `express-generator` by typing `npm install express-generator -g`. After that, in the terminal, navigate to the root folder of your project and run `express --view=hbs` to automatically generate a project structure with Handlebarsjs (`hbs`) as a template engine. Finally, run `npm install` which will install all necessary Node modules specified by `package.json`. 
6. All those Node modules are stored inside the `node_modules` folder. To ignore this folder when committing the project to Git, create a `.gitignore` file and put this line in it: `node_modules/`
7. Start the Node (Express) server by running `npm start` and test the connection in the browser by going to the url `localhost:3000` - you should see a welcome page. 


# Project structure

The project structure was generated by the `express-generator` npm library in step number 4 of the [Setup](#setup) section.

1. `bin/www.js` handles the creation of the server and switching it on/off
2. `app.js` is served by the main controller to manage all the middleware/3rd-party libraries that you import into the project. There is also some code to manage workflows and catch server errors
3. `node_modules` folder contains all npm libraries installed in the project
4. `public` folder contains main source files - media files (images, videos, etc.), CSS stylesheets, JS scripts 
5. `routes` folder contains files which define what should be rendered when accessing a particular URL address (route) 
6. `views` folder contains `html` files or template engine files e.g. `hbs`  
7. `package.json` contains all project's metadata

When you go to an arbitrary URL of your app i.e. `localhost:3000`, the server will check on the `routes` to find out which `view` (template) should be rendered and then it renders the `view` with all parameters defined in the `route`.

# Front-end framework for UI

We will use Bootstrap as a front-end framework for app's UI. 

Google "Bootstrap CDN" or visit https://getbootstrap.com/ and get the CDN links to minified Bootstrap source files (JS, CSS). Copy the CSS link and put it in the `<head>` of the `layout.hbs` file. In the contrary, the JS script usually goes to the bottom of the `<body>`. Bootstrap can't work without jQuery, so it's neccessary to put a link to jQuery library before the Bootsrap's JS link. You can get the jQuery CDN link from https://code.jquery.com/.

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>{{title}}</title>
    <link href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.0.0-beta2/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet" integrity="sha384-BmbxuPwQa2lc/FVzBcNJ7UAyJxM6wuqIj61tLrc4wSX0szH/Ev+nYRRuWlolflfl" crossorigin="anonymous">
    <link rel='stylesheet' href='/stylesheets/style.css' />
  </head>
  <body>
    {{{body}}}

    <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.5.1.min.js" integrity="sha256-9/aliU8dGd2tb6OSsuzixeV4y/faTqgFtohetphbbj0=" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.0.0-beta2/dist/js/bootstrap.bundle.min.js" integrity="sha384-b5kHyXgcpbZJO/tY9Ul7kGkf1S0CWuKcCD38l8YkeH8z8QjE0GmW1gYU5S9FOnJ0" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

